### Mini Description

Studies the ethics of resource limited populations spanning across space and time.  

### Description

Population ethics becomes more and more relevant and imperative as humans and AI systems become more capable of finely controlling resources and their distribution, as well as the birth rates of the sentient beings they have causal efficacy over. Questions that are central to population ethics include ones regarding the lifetime value and utility of certain beings over others, whether we ought to be making people happy or generating more happy people, the ethics of having children, how we ought to distribute our limited resources across populations, the value of generating lives not worth living, etc. Some issues that are fairly central to population ethics are the Repugnant Conclusion and the non-identity problem. For illustrative purposes of population ethics,  the Repugnant Conclusion states that, For any possible population of at least ten billion people, all with a very high quality of life, there must be some much larger imaginable population whose existence, if other things are equal, would be better even though its members have lives that are barely worth living (Parfit 1984).

In the long-term, powerful AI systems may be able to influence and manipulate human population and our birth rates. Such systems will need to suggest or commit to certain forms of population ethics based on its own or our own moral analysis. If such powerful AI systems are created then we will need to contend with potentially alien and disturbing solutions to or correct answers for population ethics generated by our machines. It is suggested that one logically possible conclusion superintelligence may come to is that non-existence is in the best interest of all Earth-originating biological organisms due to the prevalence of suffering in our lives. (Metzinger 2017) It may then choose to act benevolently and euthanize us with preference towards some new form of sentient life. This says nothing of the likelihood or plausibility of such a scenario, but is useful for engaging ourselves in critical questions about ethical AI, our values and moral intuitions, our normative and metaethics, and what it means to genuinely create value aligned AI.
